

Whereas,
families of persons with mental illness are usually the first to recognize that
their loved ones need help dealing with the symptoms of their illness: and

Whereas,
mental illness can be successfully managed with long-term compliance with
treatment in the form of proper medications and appropriate therapy; and

Whereas,
adults with mental illness, although often functioning under a worldview
distorted by delusions, can be very intelligent and articulate, and are
sometimes very capable of fooling or manipulating others who do not know them
well; and 

Whereas,
adults with mental illness are often impaired by "anosognosia," which
prevents them from understanding their illness and need for treatment; and

Whereas,
families of an adult with a mental illness often find it difficult, if not
impossible, to convince their loved ones to seek and stay in treatment and
often must resort to seeking involuntary treatment provided by the state to get
the treatment needed; and

Whereas,
families of an adult with mental illness who has become incapacitated by the
illness to the point that the person cannot make reasonable decisions can apply
for and obtain a court order appointing a family member or someone else as
guardian to make treatment decisions for the adult with mental illness; and

Whereas,
guardianship is typically not discussed with families by those in the mental
health system from whom they seek help, and the expense and trauma associated
with obtaining a court-appointed guardian is not something that many families
are able to bear; and

Whereas, the
State of Arizona has a publicly funded, statutorily authorized mental health
system that allows the state to force persons to get needed treatment who are
mentally ill and who are either a danger to self or others as the result of the
mental illness or who, without treatment, will likely become dangerous or more
seriously mentally ill, and who are unwilling or unable to voluntarily accept
treatment. However, the system with which families and patients are forced to
deal in order to get needed treatment is confusing and unnecessarily complex,
is not always responsive to the needs of the mentally ill person and is
sometimes resistant to listening to or helping those who know the person best;
and 

Whereas, a
growing number of families in Arizona can attest to the mental health system's
lack of responsiveness when they seek treatment for an adult family member with
mental illness.  Often the situation is not perceived to be an emergency if no
harm has yet occurred or been seriously threatened, or if forms were not filled
out properly and the intake persons are not willing to talk with the family
members to get more information to clarify the situation or to assist the
family member with finding help elsewhere in the community; and

Whereas,
even when the system appears to be initially willing to help, the person for
whom treatment is sought is too often provided only brief treatment in the form
of counseling and a prescription for medication without any follow-up to
determine whether the person has been compliant with the treatment prescribed
and whether there has been any significant change in symptoms or behaviors; and


Whereas,
the State of Arizona is mandated to provide a system to screen and evaluate
those in need of court-ordered mental health treatment and to provide a
community-based residential treatment system with a wide range of treatment
alternatives to institutionalization, including an effective case management
system.  However, the evaluation agencies in the largest county in Arizona,
with the largest number of people at risk, do not have sufficient capacity to
efficiently perform evaluations.  There are not sufficient resources
in the community to meet the needs of mentally ill persons, requiring them to
stay in inpatient settings that are not appropriate for their treatment.  Further,
appropriate case management designed to effectively monitor and ensure patient
compliance with mandated treatment is available to only a select few; and

Whereas,
far too many preventable tragedies have resulted from the present state of
Arizona's mental health system, including the tragic death of Reyna Isabel
Estrada on July 14, 2017 at the hands of her older brother, who suffered from
an untreated mental illness; and

Whereas,
known for her passion for sports, her long, dark braided hair and her contagious
laughter and smile, Reyna packed a great deal of life into her fifteen years. 
She dreamed of becoming an anesthesiologist.  Whether participating in a beauty
pageant, camping in the forest, playing in the snow, enjoying recreational
activities in the desert, vacationing in Hawaii, Mexico, California or Las
Vegas, attending a game of her beloved Redskins and Red Sox, swimming with
giant turtles in the ocean, or amusing her family with stories, Reyna lived her
life to the fullest and impressed others around her with her intelligence,
kindness and humor.  She will be greatly missed by all who knew her; and

Whereas,
Reyna Estrada's premature and senseless death is a tragic reminder of the
horrific and life-altering consequences that can result from ignoring the
symptoms of mental illness in our communities.

Therefore

Be it
resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of Arizona, the Senate
concurring:

1.  That
the Members of the Legislature recognize that the publicly funded mental health
system in this state exists to benefit not only the patient but to protect the
public by providing needed mental health treatment to those who cannot or will
not voluntarily accept treatment.

2.  That the Members of
the Legislature recognize that families of a person with mental illness have
the right to be treated with respect and compassion when seeking the
appropriate care and treatment for their family member. 

3.  That
the Members of the Legislature recognize that the mental health system is
confusing and complex for persons who seek help for a family member who has, or
appears to have, a mental illness, and that families have the right to receive
help navigating the system and information about what the system can and cannot
do and what other resources or support services are available in the community
to help them and their family member.

4.  That
the Members of the Legislature recognize that it is their responsibility to
ensure that the mental health system in Arizona works to benefit the patients
and to protect the public, including ensuring that the system is adequately
funded to deal with the growing number of untreated mentally ill persons in
this state and that those agencies accountable for the public funding provided
to run the system use the monies appropriately. 

