State of Arkansas
91st General Assembly
Second Extraordinary Session, 2018                                              HR 1002


By: Representative Ballinger


                                     HOUSE RESOLUTION
               RECOGNIZING THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY CREATED BY
               THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC IN ARKANSAS; AND RESOLVING TO
               ADDRESS THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY AND TO SUPPORT
               EFFORTS TO RESPOND TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY.




                                          Subtitle
                        RECOGNIZING THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY
                        CREATED BY THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC IN
                        ARKANSAS; AND RESOLVING TO ADDRESS THE
                        PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY AND TO SUPPORT
                        EFFORTS TO RESPOND TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH
                        EMERGENCY.




       WHEREAS, drug poisoning deaths are the leading cause of unintentional
injury death in the United States, outnumbering those deaths caused by
firearms, car crashes, suicide, and homicide; and


       WHEREAS, drug overdose is now the leading cause of death for Americans
under 50 years old and has removed 2.5 months from the average Americanâ€™s
life expectancy; and


       WHEREAS, overdose deaths in Arkansas have ballooned over 250% from 5.4
per 100,000 citizens in the year 2000 to 14.0 per 100,000 in 2016; and


       WHEREAS, over 1,500 people died from drug overdose deaths in Arkansas
from 2013 to 2015, and at least half of those deaths were opioid related; and
in 2016 alone, Arkansas saw the number of drug overdose deaths rise to 401,



*KLC335*                                                     03/13/2018 9:29:31 AM KLC335
                                                                          HR1002


of which 335 were related to the misuse of opioids; and


     WHEREAS, increased availability of prescription opioids corresponds
with increased use and overdose, and Arkansas has been particularly
susceptible to the rapid expansion of opioid availability; and


     WHEREAS, Arkansas has the second-highest opioid prescription rate in
the country, with doctors writing 114.6 opioid prescriptions for every 100
persons in 2016; and


     WHEREAS, Arkansas has the highest rate in the country of misuse of
prescription opioids by children ages 12 to 17 at 6.2%; and


     WHEREAS, on October 26, 2017, the President of the United States
declared the opioid crisis to be a nationwide public health emergency; and


     WHEREAS, the Arkansas General Assembly has taken steps to create and
improve the Arkansas Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, a program that has
become a model for other states; and


     WHEREAS, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson and Arkansas Drug Director
Kirk Lane have shown great leadership in response to the opioid epidemic;
Governor Hutchinson and Director Lane have supported legislation allowing
pharmacists to dispense naloxone, a temporary antidote for opioid overdose,
without a prescription; and they have helped establish a statewide protocol
for tracking the prescribing and dispensing of opioids in Arkansas; and


     WHEREAS, Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge has also shown great
leadership in response to the opioid epidemic; General Rutledge introduced
Prescription for Life, a first-in-the-nation educational tool that is free to
high schools across Arkansas through her office; and she is a cosponsor of
the annual Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention Summit, a program that provides
free training and educational opportunities for law enforcement officers,
medical professionals, pharmacists, and educators on prescription drug abuse
prevention and treatment; and



                                   2             03/13/2018 9:29:31 AM KLC335
                                                                          HR1002


     WHEREAS, local officials across Arkansas, including county judges,
mayors, sheriffs, police chiefs, fire chiefs, first responders, coroners, and
others, have shown great leadership in responding to the adverse effects of
the opioid epidemic in law enforcement, jails, the court system, local
communities, and families; and


     WHEREAS, despite the laudable efforts of state and local officials in
Arkansas, the opioid epidemic continues to devastate Arkansas; and


     WHEREAS, on January 24, 2018, Attorney General Rutledge announced the
state has retained outside counsel to assist her staff lawyers in
investigating and potentially prosecuting certain pharmaceutical companies
that have contributed to the opioid epidemic in Arkansas; and


     WHEREAS, on February 1, 2018, the Association of Arkansas Counties and
the Arkansas Municipal League announced that the majority of the counties and
cities in Arkansas are working together through the 3 risk management
programs that represent virtually all Arkansas cities and counties to pursue
litigation against pharmaceutical companies that have contributed to the
opioid epidemic in Arkansas; and in a unique and strategic move, the counties
and cities announced they will work together to present a unified front
against the opioid epidemic in court; and


     WHEREAS, the opioid epidemic nationally and in Arkansas is of
unprecedented magnitude, and state and local governments have an
unprecedented responsibility to pursue all available measures to respond to
the opioid epidemic and the substantial adverse impact and cost to our
society, local communities, and families; and


     WHEREAS, the opioid epidemic is best addressed by cooperation and
collaboration by state and local officials in Arkansas,


NOW THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NINETY-FIRST GENERAL
ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS:



                                     3           03/13/2018 9:29:31 AM KLC335
                                                                       HR1002


     THAT the House of Representatives affirmatively advance and support the
leadership roles and efforts to respond to the opioid epidemic by the state,
the Governor, the Attorney General, Arkansas counties and the Association of
Arkansas Counties, and Arkansas cities and the Arkansas Municipal League.


BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the House of Representatives encourage the state,
counties, and cities to work cooperatively and collaboratively to pursue all
available measures to address the unprecedented opioid epidemic, including
without limitation unified and cohesive legal action by the state, counties,
and cities.




                                   4             03/13/2018 9:29:31 AM KLC335
