State of Arkansas
91st General Assembly
Second Extraordinary Session, 2018                                              HR 1001


By: Representative Dotson


                                     HOUSE RESOLUTION
               RECOGNIZING THE NEED TO RAISE AWARENESS OF THE
               PREVALENCE OF EATING DISORDERS AND SUPPORTING THE
               EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC ON EATING DISORDERS.




                                            Subtitle
                        RECOGNIZING THE NEED TO RAISE AWARENESS
                        OF THE PREVALENCE OF EATING DISORDERS AND
                        SUPPORTING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC ON
                        EATING DISORDERS.




       WHEREAS, the 2018 theme of the National Eating Disorders Awareness Week
was "Let's Get Real‚Äù, and focused on expanding the conversation around eating
disorders to include the diverse perspectives of the millions of people
affected; and


       WHEREAS, as eating disorders are shrouded in stigma, secrecy, and
stereotypes, the goal of this year's campaign was to shine a light on these
deadly illnesses, dispel misinformation, and connect people with the support
they need to recover; and


       WHEREAS, eating disorders are serious conditions that are potentially
life threatening and have a great impact on both a person's physical and
emotional health; and


       WHEREAS, too often, signs and symptoms are overlooked and many
individuals, families, and communities are unaware of the devastating mental
and physical consequences of eating disorders, as well as the pressures,



*KLC334*                                                     03/13/2018 8:19:24 AM KLC334
                                                                          HR1001


attitudes, and behaviors that shape them; and


      WHEREAS, in the United States, twenty million (20,000,000) women and
ten million (10,000,000) men suffer from clinically significant eating
disorders at some time in their lives; and


      WHEREAS, eating disorders affect people across all backgrounds, and
include anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorders; and


      WHEREAS, the National Eating Disorders Association strives to address
the many misconceptions regarding eating disorders and highlight the
availability of resources for treatment and support; and


      WHEREAS, National Eating Disorders Awareness Week is a collaborative
effort consisting primarily of volunteers, including eating disorder
professionals, healthcare providers, students, educators, social workers, and
individuals committed to raising awareness of the dangers surrounding eating
disorders and the need for early intervention and treatment access; and


      WHEREAS, eating disorders are usually diagnosed in adolescence and can
be accompanied by other substantial psychological problems, including
depression, substance abuse, and suicide; and


      WHEREAS, eating disorders are serious illnesses, and not lifestyle
choices; and


      WHEREAS, anorexia has the highest mortality rate of any mental illness;
and


      WHEREAS, many cases of eating disorders go undetected and less than
one-third of youth with eating disorders will receive treatment; and


      WHEREAS, eating disorder experts have found that prompt intensive
treatment significantly improves the chances of recovery; and


      WHEREAS, it is critical for educators, medical providers, parents, and

                                   2             03/13/2018 8:19:24 AM KLC334
                                                                        HR1001


community members to be aware of the warning signs and symptoms of eating
disorders; and


      WHEREAS, National Eating Disorders Awareness Week encourages people to
share their stories and experiences with eating disorders and body image
struggles and highlights the importance of screenings for the early detection
of and intervention in eating disorders, dispels myths, and presents eating
disorders as a public health issue that affects all kinds of people,
regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, size, or background; and


      WHEREAS, the National Eating Disorders Association plays an important
role in promoting public and media attention to the seriousness of eating
disorders and for working to improve education about their biological and
environmental causes, as well as providing information on how to help
individuals who are struggling with these deadly illnesses,


NOW THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NINETY-FIRST GENERAL
ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS:


      THAT the House of Representatives recognize the importance of National
Eating Disorders Awareness Week in raising awareness of the prevalence of
eating disorders across the nation and support educating people about these
illnesses.


BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT upon adoption of this resolution, a copy shall be
provided to Dr. Angela Mensah by the Chief Clerk of the House of
Representatives.




                                     3           03/13/2018 8:19:24 AM KLC334
