State of Arkansas
91st General Assembly
Second Extraordinary Session, 2018                                                 SCR 1


By: Senators B. Johnson, Caldwell
By: Representatives D. Douglas, Jett


                        SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
               SUPPORTING ESTABLISHMENT OF A STANDARD OF IDENTITY
               FOR RICE USING THE COMMON UNDERSTANDING OF THE TERM
               “RICE”.




                                         Subtitle
                        SUPPORTING ESTABLISHMENT OF A STANDARD OF
                        IDENTITY FOR RICE USING THE COMMON
                        UNDERSTANDING OF THE TERM “RICE”.




       WHEREAS, the consumers of the State of Arkansas and of the United
States deserve to be protected from the negative effects of intentionally
misleading labeling and marketing of food products; and


       WHEREAS, the Arkansas Rice Federation defines rice as the whole or
broken kernels obtained from the species Oryza sativa L., or wild rice
defined by the four species of grasses from the genus Zizania; and


       WHEREAS, consumers may be misled or confused by the labeling of food
products using the word “rice” in their description and marketing in a way
that inaccurately represents the nutritional composition of the food product;
and


       WHEREAS, meaningful food labeling should include information on actual
content, chemical composition, nutritional content, or potential allergy
concerns or potential toxicity concerns; and




*MGF370*                                                     03/12/2018 11:55:46 AM MGF370
                                                                            SCR1


     WHEREAS, labeling of a food product that delivers no pertinent
information about the actual content of the food or food package and is
included solely to mislead is not a fair or meaningful way to enhance
consumer choice; and


     WHEREAS, consumers, food marketers, vendors, retailers, and producers
have called for honesty and transparency in the labeling of food products
made wholly of or containing rice and for the establishing of a definition
for the term “rice” using the common understanding of the term “rice” as
defined in this resolution; and


     WHEREAS, food products labeled or marketed using the term “rice” should
actually contain or be derived from rice grains or wild rice as defined in
this resolution,


NOW THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE SENATE OF THE NINETY-FIRST GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS, THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES CONCURRING THEREIN:


     THAT the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, and Economic
Development expresses its concern that deceptive labeling and marketing of
food is intended to confuse consumers in an effort to replace food products
wholly comprised of or containing rice.


BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the Senate and the House of Representatives will
work to pass appropriate state legislation to establish a standard of
identity for rice using the common understanding of the term “rice” as
defined in this resolution.


BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT upon adoption of this resolution, a copy of this
resolution shall be transmitted to each member of the Arkansas congressional
delegation, the United States Secretary of Agriculture, and the Commissioner
of the United States Food and Drug Administration, urging them to work to
pass nationwide legislation to establish a standard of identity for rice
using the common understanding of the term “rice” as defined in this
resolution.

                                   2            03/12/2018 11:55:46 AM MGF370
