

     WHEREAS, the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a civil rights law that prohibits
discrimination against individuals with disabilities in all areas of public
life, including jobs, schools, transportation, and all public and private
places that are open to the general public; and

 

     WHEREAS, the
purpose of the ADA is to ensure that people with disabilities have the same
rights and opportunities as everyone else by granting them civil rights
protections similar to those protections provided to individuals on the basis
of race, color, sex, national origin, age, and religion, and to guarantee equal
opportunity for individuals with disabilities in public accommodations,
employment, transportation, state and local government services, and
telecommunications; and

 

     WHEREAS, play
is crucial for human development, the growth of social skills, and
self-confidence; and

 

     WHEREAS, an
accessible playground is one that offers a range of play experiences to
children of varying abilities and generally complies with the ADA, but does not
mean that each and every feature or event must be usable by every child; and 

 

     WHEREAS, an
inclusive playground provides more for people with disabilities than accessible
playgrounds by taking away the barriers to inclusion, both physical and social,
and providing a “sensory rich” experience for all; and

 

     WHEREAS,
children without disabilities may also benefit from inclusive playgrounds by
connecting with children from different backgrounds and abilities, and gain
empathy, social, and emotional skills; and

     WHEREAS,
inclusive playgrounds provide benefits to more individuals than just children
since there are far more parents and grandparents with disabilities than
children and cross-generational play is beneficial for families; and

 

     WHEREAS, the
Legislature finds that play experiences at parks should be accessible for all
children and their families, without regard to physical ability; and

 

     WHEREAS, the
City and County of Honolulu currently lacks inclusive playgrounds; now,
therefore,

 

     BE IT
RESOLVED by the House of Representatives of the Twenty-ninth Legislature of the
State of Hawaii, Regular Session of 2018, that the City and County of Honolulu
is urged to create, at minimum, one inclusive playground accessible to children
and caregivers of all physical abilities; and

 

     BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED that the City and County of Honolulu is urged to obtain and consider
community input before any design or construction takes place; and

 

     BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED that inclusive playgrounds should be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, P.L. 101-336, the
2010 Americans with Disabilities Act Standards for Accessible Design, and any
relevant guidelines issued by the United States Department of Justice,
including but not limited to accessibility guidelines on play areas, play
surfaces, play components, and access routes; and

 

     BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED that inclusive playgrounds should be designed and constructed with
sufficient and accessible amenities, including parking spaces and bathrooms;
and

 

     BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED that certified copies of this Resolution be transmitted to the Mayor
of the City and County of 

Honolulu and the
Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation of the City and County of
Honolulu.

 

 

 


 
  
   
  
  
  OFFERED BY:
  
  
  _____________________________
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 


Report Title: 


URGING
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU TO CREATE INCLUSIVE PLAYGROUNDS.

