ORIGINAL SENATE
FILE NO. SF0102

       ENROLLED ACT NO. 27, SENATE

       SIXTY-FOURTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING
                   2017 GENERAL SESSION




AN ACT relating to boards of county commissioners;
permitting a board of county commissioners to authorize a
designee to carry out its duties related to zoning
certificates; and providing for an effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming:

     Section 1.   W.S. 18-5-203 is amended to read:

     18-5-203. Certificate required to locate buildings or
use land within zoning resolution; issuance and denial;
appeal upon denial.

It is unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct,
enlarge, change, maintain or use any building or use any
land within any area included in a zoning resolution
without first obtaining a zoning certificate from the board
of county commissioners or its designee and no zoning
certificate shall be issued unless the plans for the
proposed building, structure or use fully comply with the
zoning regulations then in effect. The board of county
commissioners or its designee shall act promptly upon any
application filed with it and shall grant certificates when
the proposed construction or use complies with the
requirements of the zoning resolution. If it denies the
application, the board or its designee shall specify the
reasons for such the denial. Any applicant desiring to
appeal shall appeal to the board of county commissioners.
The decision of the board of county commissioners may be
reviewed by the district court and by the supreme court
upon appeal in the same manner as provided in W.S.
15-1-609, for review of decisions of boards of adjustment.




                               1
ORIGINAL SENATE
FILE NO. SF0102

       ENROLLED ACT NO. 27, SENATE

       SIXTY-FOURTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING
                   2017 GENERAL SESSION




     Section 2.   This act is effective July 1, 2017.

                             (END)




Speaker of the House                  President of the Senate


                           Governor

                  TIME APPROVED: _________

                  DATE APPROVED: _________

I hereby certify that this act originated in the Senate.




Chief Clerk




                                 2
