ORIGINAL SENATE
FILE NO. SF0034

       ENROLLED ACT NO. 68, SENATE

       SIXTY-FOURTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING
                    2018 BUDGET SESSION




AN ACT relating to labor and employment; removing the
sunset provision terminating military spouse unemployment
benefits; and providing for an effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming:

     Section 1.   W.S. 27-3-311(a)(i)(D) is amended to read:

     27-3-311. Disqualifications       from     entitlement;
grounds; forfeiture.

     (a) An individual shall be disqualified from benefit
entitlement beginning with the effective date of an
otherwise valid claim or the week during which the failure
occurred,    until   he   has    been   employed    in   an
employee-employer relationship and has earned at least
eight (8) times the weekly benefit amount of his current
claim for services after that date, if the department finds
that he:

          (i) Left   his   most  recent   work  voluntarily
without good cause attributable directly to his employment,
except:

               (D) If unemployed as a result of relocation
due to the transfer of the unemployed individual's spouse,
either within or outside the state, from which it is
impractical to commute to the place of employment, and upon
arrival at the new residence, the individual is in all
respects able and available for suitable work and registers
for work with the department of workforce services or an
equivalent agency of another state where the individual is
residing.   To   qualify  under   this  subparagraph,   the
individual shall be married to a member of the United
States armed forces whose relocation is the result of an


                               1
ORIGINAL SENATE
FILE NO. SF0034

       ENROLLED ACT NO. 68, SENATE

       SIXTY-FOURTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING
                    2018 BUDGET SESSION




assignment on active duty as defined in 10 U.S.C.
101(d)(1), active guard or reserve duty as defined in 10
U.S.C. 101(d)(6), active duty pursuant to title 10 of the
United States Code, or training or other duty performed by
a member of the army national guard of the United States or
the air national guard of the United States under section
316, 502, 503, 504 or 505 of title 32 of the United States
Code.   Any benefits awarded under this subparagraph shall
be noncharged benefits and shall not affect an employer's
experience rating account.   This subparagraph is repealed
effective July 1, 2018.




                               2
ORIGINAL SENATE
FILE NO. SF0034

       ENROLLED ACT NO. 68, SENATE

       SIXTY-FOURTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING
                    2018 BUDGET SESSION




     Section 2. This act is effective immediately upon
completion of all acts necessary for a bill to become law
as provided by Article 4, Section 8 of the Wyoming
Constitution.

                             (END)




Speaker of the House                  President of the Senate


                           Governor

                  TIME APPROVED: _________

                  DATE APPROVED: _________

I hereby certify that this act originated in the Senate.




Chief Clerk




                                 3
